# python-challenge
 
# PyBank Instructions
In this Challenge, you are tasked with creating a Python script to analyze the financial records of your company. You will be given a financial dataset called budget_data.csv. The dataset is composed of two columns: "Date" and "Profit/Losses".

Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the records to calculate each of the following values:

The total number of months included in the dataset

The net total amount of "Profit/Losses" over the entire period

The changes in "Profit/Losses" over the entire period, and then the average of those changes

The greatest increase in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

The greatest decrease in profits (date and amount) over the entire period

Your analysis should align with the following results:

Financial Analysis
----------------------------
Total Months: 86
Total: $22564198
Average Change: $-8311.11
Greatest Increase in Profits: Aug-16 ($1862002)
Greatest Decrease in Profits: Feb-14 ($-1825558)
In addition, your final script should both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

# PyPoll Instructions
In this Challenge, you are tasked with helping a small, rural town modernize its vote-counting process.

You will be given a set of poll data called election_data.csv. The dataset is composed of three columns: "Voter ID", "County", and "Candidate". Your task is to create a Python script that analyzes the votes and calculates each of the following values:

The total number of votes cast

A complete list of candidates who received votes

The percentage of votes each candidate won

The total number of votes each candidate won

The winner of the election based on popular vote

Your analysis should align with the following results:

Election Results
-------------------------
Total Votes: 369711
-------------------------
Charles Casper Stockham: 23.049% (85213)
Diana DeGette: 73.812% (272892)
Raymon Anthony Doane: 3.139% (11606)
-------------------------
Winner: Diana DeGette
-------------------------
In addition, your final script should both print the analysis to the terminal and export a text file with the results.

# Code Sources Used Throughout Project

I used StackOverflow and GeeksforGeeks primarily as my two reference sources for the coding.
No copy/pasting was done but one bit of code that is typed out almost exactly as the original source is the code used to find the headers of each column and create a dictionary containing all values in the specified column. This code is used in lines 13-29, 57-73 for the PyBank code and lines 14-30 in the PyPoll code. The exact source that I pulled this chunk of code from can be found in this link to StackOverflow: https://stackoverflow.com/questions/19486369/extract-csv-file-specific-columns-to-list-in-python
I used the code in the second answer to the question asked on the forum. The code was submitted by Ben Southgate.

Another bit of coding that I got from an outside source is the sys.stdout function to print the results to a text file. I actually got this code generated by the Xpert Learning Assistant in the student portal. You can see this code being utlized in lines 120-133 in PyBank and lines 84-106 in PyPoll.
